
pbm- black and white image
pgm grey scale one more parameter than pbm
 last number parameter is the max greyscale number

ppm- color image, has three values same header format as pgm-
- as opposed to one value representing a pixel three values represent a pixel.
- three bands r, g ,b

There are two common types of JPEG files: JPEG/JFIF and JPEG/Exif. Both specs (JFIF and Exif) require 
that their corresponding header appears directly after the SOI (Start of Image) marker. 
In the case of JFIF it is an APP0 marker, in the case of Exif it is an APP1 marker.

Quantization:

This is the point at which the user (you) can control the quality and amount of compression of the JPEG. Most 
application such as Photoshop have a slider or drop list 
of quality settings. The quality setting ( Quality factor ) 
is used to scale the values in the quantization table.

If the DCT input has a small pattern strength or a large divisor in the quantization table the Output will likely
 round to zero.

The lower the quality setting, the greater the divisor, increasing the chance of a zero result. On the converse,
 the highest quality setting would have quantization ta
ble values of all 1's, meaning the all of the original DCT data is preserved.




Since the JPEG compression algorithm uses quantization to reduce many of these high-frequency values to zero, one 
typically has a number of non-zero entries in the earlier coefficients and a long run of zero coefficients 
to the end of the matrix.



SOF0:

0x simply indicates that the number that follows is in hexadecimal

number of componens mean number of colors


for each component: 3 bytes
component id (1 = Y, 2 = Cb, 3 = Cr, 4 = I, 5 = Q)
sampling factors (bit 0-3 vert., 4-7 hor.)
quantization table number



SOS(start of scan):

-immediately followed by entropy coded data, possibly the huffman table contains decode info



Huffman Coding(Entropy Coding):

Huffman coding is a method that takes symbols (e.g. bytes, DCT coefficients, etc.) and encodes them 
with variable length codes that are assigned according to statistical probabilities. 
A frequently-used symbol will be encoded with a code that takes up only a couple bits, while symbols 
that are rarely used are represented by symbols that take more bits to encode.




each pair of hexadecimal characters represents one byte